# MFBM
(4/14/2023)I have created this repository with the intention of combining my loves of Computer Science, Mathematics, and Basketball to aim to create the first ever Matthew Faler Basketball Metric (MFBM). I am still in the brainstorming phase, but I am very interested in writing one of these algorithms to measure player value. My first step will be analyzing how many of these basketball metrics work and how people calculate them.

(4/21/2023) So far, I have been still researching on two main things: what the best language to use would be and how I would go about connecting a database to have a store of player information to use instead of entering manually whenever I would want to calculate a player's metric. In terms of languages, my first thoughts would be Python, R, or maybe MATLAB. I could also use Java or C++ of course, but I am not sure I would need all that a OOP language would offer and know that Python and R have definitely been known to make mathematical operations simpler. In addition, I know that a job I interviewed for recently uses Python and SQL together for data analysis, something that is definitely worth thinking about. I am skeptical that I would be able to add a database to MATLAB as well, something that would definitely prevent me from using it. As far as finding a database, I am hoping to find some kind of existing one online that I would be able to make SQL statements with to simplify getting player stats. If not, it seems that I will have to make my own. While this would most-likely be tedious, I could include and take out whichever statistics I wanted and hopefully make a DB as relevant as possible to the metrics I am trying to calculate.
